# EDA - Facebook Dataset
Exploratory data analysis using Python, Numpy, Pandas, Seaborn

<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
<ul><li>Problem Statement</li>
<li>Data Loading and Description</li>
<li>Data Profiling</li>
<li>Understanding the Dataset</li>
<li>Profiling_1</li>
<li>Preprocessing_1</li>
<li>Profiling_2</li>
<li>Preprocessing_2</li>
<li>Post Profiling</li>
<li>Conclusions</li></ul>

<h2>Problem Statement</h2>
<p>The notebooks explores the basic use of Pandas and will cover the basic commands of Exploratory Data Analysis(EDA) which includes cleaning, munging, combining, reshaping, slicing, dicing, and transforming data for analysis purpose.</p>

<ul><h3>Exploratory Data Analysis<h3>
<p>Understand the data by EDA and derive simple models with Pandas as baseline. EDA ia a critical and first step in analyzing the data and we do this for below reasons :</p>
  <li>Finding patterns in Data</li>
<li>Determining relationships in Data</li>
<li>Checking of assumptions</li>
<li>Preliminary selection of appropriate models</li>
<li>Detection of mistakes</li></ul>

<h2>Data Loading and Description</h2>

<ul><li>The dataset consists information collected from Facebook for study/practice purpose.</li>
<li>The dataset comprises of 99003 observations of 15 columns. Below is a table showing names of all the columns and their description.</li></ul><br><br>
<table><tbody><th>Column Name</th>	<th>Description</th>
  <tr><td>userid</td>	<td> User Id Generated by Facebook for each user</td></tr>
  <tr><td>age</td>	<td>	Age of the person when he joined Facebook</td></tr>
  <tr><td>dob_day	</td><td>Date of Birth</td></tr>
<tr><td>dob_year	</td><td>Year of Birth</td></tr>
<tr><td>dob_month	</td><td>Month of Birth</td></tr>
<tr><td>gender	</td><td>Gender of the person who joined Facebook</td></tr>
<tr><td>tenure	</td><td>No. of days since the person is using Facebook</td></tr>
<tr><td>friend_count	</td><td>Number of Friends the person have added on his profile</td></tr>
  <tr><td>friendships_initiated	</td><td>Number of Friend Request sent by the person </td></tr>
  <tr><td>likes	</td><td>Number of Likes Given</td></tr>
  <tr><td>likes_received	</td><td>Number of Likes Received</td></tr>
  <tr><td>mobile_likes	</td><td>Number of Likes Given via Mobile</td></tr>
  <tr><td>mobile_likes_received	</td><td>Number of Likes Received via Mobile</td></tr>
  <tr><td>www_likes	</td><td>Number of Likes Received via Website</td></tr>
  <tr><td>www_likes_received	</td><td>Number of Likes Received via Website</td></tr></tbody></table>
  <br<br>
<h3>Some Background Information</h3>
<ul><li>This sample data was collected from Facebook and provided by INSAID team to perform Exploratory Data Analysis.</li>
  <li>This dataset has real raw data which has all inconvenient moments (as NA’s for example).</li>
<li>This dataset contains data 99003 Records with 14 Numeric Coloumns and 1 Categorical Coloumn.</li></ul>

<h2>--><a href="https://github.com/mushahidhkhan/">Access Python Notebook Here</a></h2>
